[Music]
what's up guys what's growing on so
guess what I'm that can homestead and
I'm doing a little fruit hunting and
today we are at lnb farms and homestead
I want to be going to fruit spice Park
I'm gonna go into dr. Campbell's I'm
gonna be going to three sisters maybe a
couple other spots we're gonna squeeze
in there so hold tight I got lots of
awesome farm tours for you guys are you
ready for this my name is Levi LMB
you're here on lmv groves this organic
tropical fruit farm was started by my
old man back in the late 70s we say
since 1980 I was born and raised on this
farm so I grew up eating all these nice
tropical fruits that we grow here I grew
up bringing people and friends around
the farm learning about the fruits as I
grew up working with the crews picking
fruit from a young age
[Music]
that Levi now you're a young guy I mean
you're 26 years old what made you get
into the farming thing to dead twist
your arm I mean you know why are you
doing this from a young age I kind of
had an idea that I wanted to be a part
of a family business I saw growing up
the reaction from people when you would
tell them that you're a farmer you grew
up on a farm that I was born on this
place that I live and I work here and
you see people's eyes light up like like
you're telling them something something
so magical and I love living here I love
working outside I love that I can walk
outside and go pick a fruit right off
the tree make a smoothie for breakfast
I'm get to work with nature all the time
you can hear birds chirping around us
after this nice rain here I love South
Florida I love being having the ocean in
my backyard and a better place to kind
of continue this this homestead
lifestyle then on this tropical fruit
farm
[Music]
and I also love sharing fruit with
people I did farmers markets for years
we still doing markets but when I was
doing markets on my own one of my
favorite things to do was to hand fruits
to people for the first time their first
taste of jackfruit their first taste of
MAME their first taste of a really good
mango variety an improved Friday and
mango and when I saw the response from
people and how excited they would get
about these tropical fruits I I even
encouraged me even more that yes this is
what I want to be doing I want to
continue growing these specialty
tropical fruits that you can't really
find anywhere else in the US and you
know this is a clearly attached to this
place not only you know emotionally but
also my old man's kind of relying on me
to to continue this this family farming
tradition so as a only a
second-generation farmer we look forward
to the future that we have here with
with tropical fruits and like I said
before we have the luxury of
experimenting now with with different
crops we had so many years of what what
do we need to grow for the marketplace
what do we need to grow for the
consumers and now we're kind of seeing
like what do we want to grow for
ourselves but also what can be a crop
that not only hurricane resistant
ideally you know doesn't require a ton
of inputs it's very well adapted to the
to the area so here we have an allspice
tree usually I'll I'll break a little
leaf off and now let people smell the
leaf and you can kind of get a whiff of
what's going on here that's isn't it for
the camera huh a lot of times trees like
this are chosen because of their bark
appearance more so than you know what
they can produce so in a landscape like
this you know it's pretty to have a tree
like this kind of a specimen
we grow a lot of carambola Campbell is
one of our biggest crops that we produce
for the wholesale market this time of
year is pretty cool to see you can see
the flowers and the baby fruits on the
tree at the same time so these are just
tiny little baby fruits that just set
here and the flowers are still blooming
and we're hoping for a pretty good
carambola crop this year because last
year's crop got completely blown off the
trees by the hurricane oh yeah so here's
some little bit bigger fruits here too
and we have about three different
varieties of carambola that are good
enough to bring to market and then we
got a few other mixed in there that are
kind of a little bit more finicky but we
got it we grow the arkin we grow a b10
and then we got a couple others mixed in
there that we're experimenting with
trying to see what's gonna work best for
us but it's a popular fruit it's kind of
one of the main fruits when I talk
people about the farm that's one of the
main fruits that people can recognize
and are familiar with but it does not
ship well and it doesn't package well so
one of the things we're trying to figure
out is what type of packaging we can do
to so when it gets to the supermarket
shelf or whatever its end destination is
it's not all bruised up and and you know
yellow and brown so we want people to
see what a carambola can be because you
know they taste a lot different from
when we pick them too by the time they
get to the supermarket last year when
we're looking for jackfruit that our
ripe will go around and will sort of
come off you can with more experience
you kind of see like by the appearance
of one that you can see it from far away
and say hey that jackfruit is probably
ready and takes a little bit of know-how
but most of the time you're going up and
you're you're squeezing each fruit and
once it starts to have a little bit of
give those are the ones that we'll be
harvesting because we mostly tree ripen
them for the market
doctorates are cool this time of year
also you can see tiny little buds coming
in here can see little fruit set and an
old tree like this you see the baby
jackfruit coming in and then it'll
actually have these little ones here at
the same time an old tree like this can
produce you know almost 3040 fruits
sometimes even more during a growing
season and we will actually thin them
out because they get so crowded in here
that when they start growing it creates
kind of just a big mess of jackfruit and
insects will get in there so it's
actually helps helps the trees a lot to
thin them out and take out some of the
green jackfruit so as green jackfruit
becomes more of a popular product we
we're experimenting with the with the
green jackfruit ooh
[Music]
got a little mangoes collection here at
geography probably tell you what selling
these mangoes are as a couple of Florida
varieties but the only thing about
mangoes just a bit what do you got over
here
manse the tea is over there that's a
Jakarta Jakarta yeah I was really good
[Music]
definitely uh that's not your favorite
Tiago no no no both
[Music]
so how large is the for me this farm is
15 acres we became certified organic
about five years ago what were you
before I mean were you guys just a
normal chemical form then no we the term
is conventional agriculture but we've
never been the farmers who are using a
whole concoction of different stuff
we've always been pretty environmentally
sound when it comes to what we put on
our trees and our crops yeah I mean just
judging by all the pulled weeds here on
the ground it's nice to see you know the
number one thing here on the organic
farm is is weed control and what ways
are we gonna be able to keep these weeds
down and a lot of it comes down to just
hand weeding so thought of on an organic
farm is just hand labor and keeping your
weeds down so once this tumor it gets
established in a certain height it kind
of starts to shade out the weeds on its
own so will will probably will do a
couple hand weeding x' before it starts
to get high enough to kind of create its
own bed cover
[Music]
I was the three of our guys they've been
with us for a while
Volta and it's to nephew keep up the
good work guys
[Music]
Tiago and I in the past couple of days
have just started putting some of our
fresh worm castings on these beds we're
gonna see how it works out we're doing a
little experiment the tumeric leaf has a
really beautiful aroma to it also the
leaf will actually be used in Indian
cooking also they'll take like a little
lentil flour and they'll put it in here
and make kind of like a little pancake
and then they wrap the leaf and steam it
but you can taste the smell of this and
there's a lot of medicinal properties in
the leaf as well
[Music]
here we got Sorrell planted over there
we can do a loop yeah we got sorrel and
passionfruit that are on the post and
then in between is this is the sorrel
which is a new crop for us too last year
was our first year kind of growing it in
full organic production and we use the
calyxes that are super high in
antioxidants and my sister who does
markets is now processing that and she
makes a really beautiful smoothie and
drink out of that now and it does paired
really well with ginger a lot of times
you'll see a ginger hibiscus drink in
stores and we're kind of trying to
switch it up a little bit and try to use
the whole calyx and create a product
that's a little bit different from what
you find is usually just the dried
leaves for teas so we're excited about
our sorrow all of these are from seed
that we've saved and we got them kind of
inter planted they do really well since
they're an annual plant they can be
inter planted because we know we're
gonna you know harvest and then take
them out so we're trying them out in
different spots to the farm somewhere in
bed some are planted in between the
passion fruit our passion fruit haven't
really started yet
[Music]
those I'm to see them on online these is
organic dragon fruit
we don't spray anything on these most
conventional pitaya
they use a whole concoction of sprays
and stuff in there and they're pretty
well drenched so if you're a consumer
who cares about that type of thing I
would all and you by dragging through it
I would always try to go for the organic
one for sure and so this is a the flower
actually blooms at night kinda in the
wee hours 3 o'clock 4 o'clock in the
morning if you come out here you can see
the big beautiful white flowers open and
there'll be all sorts of insects flying
around in them and just you know a
couple week or so later the fruit will
set and once they get this size it's not
long before they start to just break
color and sort of start to turn that
little pinkish color right on the cactus
there so it is a cactus and well looks
like we'll have a few here two nice ones
these are pretty old vines oh I see some
big cheapo to college over here too huh
yeah got it these are these to photocopy
trees for from pre Hurricane Andrew
really most growers down here in the red
Lynn will talk about their farming
careers as before Andrew and after
Andrew so they'll start an old every guy
will start a story with before Andrew or
after Andrew because it was such a
catastrophic event for readlyn growers
so it's important to you yeah so these
we just these last of the jabuticaba
kind of just came off the trees but yeah
there's some big old feet a lot of your
trees gets pruned from the hurricane I'm
guessing we after
irma we we cut two and we're still
cleaning up around here like there's
areas of this farm that we still haven't
even picked up yet but there's yeah
these are all jabuticaba is down this
whole row
there's jabuticaba jackfruit and a
couple other things mixed amber yeah
it's hard it's rare to see some old old
jabuticaba trees like this but still
standing in with taking care of them are
trying to bring him back
Irma's wind kind of was all this way in
a northern way so a lot of the trees
were discipline and
directions if you kind of noticed a
little bit of tilt to some of them so
they'll have the er Moline tourmaline so
uh is this worm castings again yeah with
this and we kind of did a few different
experiments with that so he got some
worm castings some oats are there a nice
little mixture of things in there this
is a different variety to work in this
bed
kind of this rain really pumps up the
jackfruits quickly it gets them pushing
through huh well yep to make the fruit
size up really pretty quickly too this
is like jackfruit la huh we need it they
got a pretty heavy pruning not last year
with the year before and they sort of
flushing their leaves out now we don't
really we have a pretty small crop this
year compared to previous years but
there's a pretty tree this one makes
some real nice fruit sometimes they get
wedged up in the tree like that you see
that oh these are like golden they're my
little basket balls
well jackfruit this one was really
topped out too
yeah there's just pruning that wasn't
the hurricane no hurricanes will snap
big branches off and then we will come
up and kind of finish off with the but
the wind started you don't want big
cracked branches just hanging around it
kind of leaves room for infection and
that's everything so you want to make
clean cuts so the water can kind of fall
off the branches wherever they've been
ripped pretty hard by the wind there's
some young momma trees we have here we
got our bees over here
organic beehives we have a good
relationship with a local beekeeper he
sets up his hives on a few different few
different areas and through different of
our farms down here in the red Lynn and
we get the pollinators and he gets his
organic honey it's a win-win huh win-win
you know he gives us a pretty good deal
on on his nice honey so this would just
be mixed tropical fruit honey pretty
much because these bees are flying
around this whole this whole organic
farm and they're going and all the
flowers that are that are blooming here
so we love that they're pretty happy
bees there's another block of star fruit
started yeah these are some young
carambola
of our special varieties we have we're
actually thinking about taking this row
of trees out there got some figs here
you know unimpressed by figs I've kind
of been neglected but they're in a clear
and then I'll bring you over to the
mames actually you can kind of see in
this tree these are grafted MAME trees I
don't know if you know a lot about mom a
mimei is interesting because you'll have
multiple seasons of your fruit on the
branches at the same time so this is
gonna be this year's crop is what you
see here these these larger fruits and
then next year's crop is already on the
tree right now and then this will be the
following years that has already started
to kind of butt up here
and it makes it really interesting
because you can see and kind of project
what you're gonna have as far as
production for the next season but it
also makes mom a is very vulnerable to
hurricanes and tropical storms because
you could literally you lose three years
of production in one bad storm so it
could knock off all these fruits and
then you're out for another couple years
before it'll set fruit again so it's a
good thing it's a blessing and a curse
at the same time you can you can kind of
see what's ahead of you but you could
also lose it all at one time so it's
challenging it's challenging for sure
but these are grafted trees that they're
already making fruit at such a young
size you guys just grafting them right
in the field or you plant no no no we
have a relationship with a local nursery
guy and he helps us out and we'll he'll
he'll grab budwood from us and nice well
order up some of the trees so this whole
block is all jackfruits and then we got
a few young mom A's and intermixed in
there also and got a few open spaces
you'll thinking about trying out a
couple other things in there but we love
jackfruit and it's great as an organic
crop for us it doesn't require a lot of
inputs it's very well adapted to South
Florida and in this area and like I said
before you can use it as a green fruit
product which is becoming more popular
in the vegan community and you know meat
replacement type deal and then you know
it's it's so cool to have all these
seedling righties that have their own
nuances of flavor they can all taste a
little bit different they're all a
little bit unique in some way so we love
jackfruit I want to be a jack for grower
for forever so Jack excite you I love ya
jackfruit is awesome and it's awesome
when we bring it to the market and
people to try it for the first time
we'll give people their first taste of a
jackfruit and they literally handing it
directly to the person you know is
experiencing for the first time so
that's been real real meaningful for us
too and we've kind of Bend growers down
here of brought jackfruit to the to the
marketplace previously it was mostly you
know you would see it occasionally in
local markets but it usually resellers
so in this case people get to really
meet the people who are actually growing
it and you know we'll bring 10 20
whatever we have ripe at the time for
the sunday market and we'll be cutting
them right up on the spot and people get
to taste a little jiggle jackfruit a
little bit of whatever else is in season
but it's always a showstopper when you
see a big gold 40 50 pound fruit sitting
on the table and I'm just cutting it
into you know big big filet knife so
it's fun and it's fun to see the you
know the response from people you know
and they taste it for the first time you
know it's not always you know he's blown
away by it but most of the time you know
it's not only the flavor but you
instantly feel kind of the effects of
what the fruit can do for you so yeah we
love jackfruit the happy fruit kind of
high hopes for but Sapodilla is very
hard to grow organically so there's a
lot of different insects now boring
insects that are affecting the Sapodilla
industry right
yep they will bore right into the fruit
as soon as they'll bore into a tiny
little fruit as soon as it gets set and
then sometimes they'll bore into an
already sized fruit so here's our other
varieties Mondays these are some older
growth MAME trees as you can see again
we have this will be next year's crop on
the tree here the following year's crop
and then this year's crop all in the
same branch
so these survived Irma Hurricane Irma
which had last year can't believe it's
almost been a year already
but they did all pretty well in the
storm despite blowing off most of the
fruit you know some survived these are
the ones that made it move these are the
ones that made it yeah sorry these and
then these were in right after it but
it's a pretty flexible tree the Bant the
branches in the end and the trunks are
all pretty flexible so they don't snap
tend to snap too much in high winds but
they will drop all their fruit they lose
all fruit you know what this is black
pepper yes sir yeah he's some nice
little black peppercorns here this is a
breath mint
the tree Piper you guys want a breath
mint it is a little spice how's noticing
your breath early and you definitely
need one of those this is an experiment
the black pepper is an experimental crop
for us where he just got it started on a
little trellis here a little bit of
topsoil that we put amended the soil
with here or some composted mulch and
then the idea was to kind of grow it up
some this host:2 tree which happens to
be a Sapodilla tree that we've pruned a
top off pretty well and I think there's
some competition with the roots but it's
just an experiment we'll see we'll see
how it goes I got some ginger is planted
in here to an inner plenty of ginger ooh
nice
Ginger's like a little bit of shade so
we're seeing how that goes with these
gingers as well also a extremely
aromatic leaf from the vegetative part
of the ginger smells a lot like good
ginger likes to grow kind of up as it's
growing and it'll sort of start to pop
out of the ground if you don't
continuously add organic material to the
top of it and so you want to always be
adding to it because you literally see
if you get a hard rain or something
they'll just the the tips of it will
start popping out of the ground and a B
ginger has been a really cool thing to
taste and experiment cooking with
because it has a
different real different flavor than
what you would get as far as that big
mature ginger you see mostly in stores
yeah so nice man ginger black pepper
Sapodilla and this is this row imamate
Ruiz is our L&B special red MAME it's a
variety that we exclusively have here on
this farm and it's become pretty popular
at the farmers market and people ask us
is this the LMB
MAME and so this is our row of lmv MAME
trees a little black sapote tree we have
a lot more black sapote and our outlying
farms but you can see some little baby
black sapote days coming in nice and
actually here's one I never got picked
and last season black sapote this time
to get this little City mold on them but
you get it cleaned up you know ripening
you know a black sapote is ready when
this top wing sort of starts to separate
from this from the fruit so you see how
its raised up here it's no longer
attached when it's still immature this
will be down like this still and then it
would really fruit is ready ready and
mature to pick it'll be up and raised be
a little space in between there love
black sapote
a lot of times I'll be walking around
the farm and when these are on the tree
and I'm like attracted to it at
different certain times I feel like my
body is kind of like telling me that I
want the nutrients from it you know
that's everything how big is this place
the farm we just walked around this is
our 15 acre organic farm and we were
lucky enough to get actually this five
acres across the street as well a couple
years ago and this is a trans it's
transitioning into organic so we are
certified organic here we get inspected
every year and this has not been
inspected yet but we are in the
transition phase right now so check out
some of the other stuff we got we get
five years over here you get inspected
and that's when you started three year
transition three years but we actually
haven't started to apply for this it is
organic we've been organic here since
we've owned it but we just haven't
become certified yet and that's
sometimes the case a lot of growers down
here they may be doing everything to be
an organic grower but they're just not
certified so here's where we got some of
our mulch
stockpile here oh you guys got to a lack
of mulch on what do you do with that
stuff the mulch is used around our
raised beds and also we we are turning
it and we compost it and break it down
and then some of the less broken-down
stuff will actually give to our worms as
some were embedding and there's all
sorts of other little grubs and insects
mixed in here and they're sort of you
know the part of the whole composting
process as well but we got a lot of
mulch material here to work with and
it's great in the beds and it turns into
some nice soil pretty quickly so do you
guys have to buy this in homesteaders
just show up for free
this is actually
the given to us there's a lot of guys
who do tree trimming in this area and
they their businesses trimming it's not
so much the mulch business so they're
always looking for places to dump the
mulch so as farmers with you know some
land to spare from space or welcome all
the organic mulch material we can get
you're doing them a favor and it's
helping you out that's right
win-win amen yeah we got a lot of
bananas planted here this was sort of we
wanted more bananas but also kind of
when we got this land we wanted to get
the agricultural zoning on it
agricultural taxes pretty much so we
bananas are one of those crops you can
plant pretty quickly and just start
growing them but we got a few different
varieties of bananas and some plantain
types here but we love these nice these
are a dwarf huh dwarf banana tree nice
and I know there is a market for these
type of the flower shape I was never
there always at the Asian market yeah
I've never stalks to the banana oh yeah
even the leaves you're tried cooking
with that no I haven't I know they're
quite bitter and there's a process
[Music]
so I like to pick these breakers where
they just started to change color on the
tree usually I have a little pair of
clippers with me but
[Music]
oh nice papaya we think the tree Thank
You tree hand it off Oh shoo that's a
pretty one really nice this one's ready
to go that's the perfect item come grab
it hold it up against you shirt camo Hey
so these papayas got super windblown in
hurricane Irma that's why there's no
leaves on the trunks at all but these
things were looking super happy and
healthy and ideal papaya tree you'll
have foliage up the entire trunk and
it'll be you know happy but all they
were so whipped in the hurricane that
they didn't have any leaves on them and
luckily they bounced back enough to kind
of produce enough fruit for us to bring
to the farmers market and to enjoy
ourselves but hopefully our next next
time we plant them they won't get hit by
a hurricane when they're young trees
yeah in the lemongrass tons of
lemongrass bunch of sugarcane too huh
yeah we got a lot of canyon over there
that's got whipped by erlitou so this
these beds kind of guy they were looking
real pretty for the hurricane tonight
you know it's just luxuries living in
Homestead huh yeah you kind of got to
pick your battles when you're coming
back from a storm like that so we've had
a lot of focus on the trees and getting
those rejuvenated and free triage so
these uh these other organics kind of
got a little bit put on the backburner
there's some passion fruit
some are seedlings from our previous
planting and somewhere a new variety
that we're testing out and then we have
our little sorrel planted here on the
sides of the passion fruit that's kind
of an experiment so we'll see how that
goes but just a simple plastic mulch
near trellis post and then we have some
string going there to kind of let these
little passions grow up on and they grow
pretty rapidly and you can see they it's
cool to see them when they wrap up
around these they haven't started
flowering yet but pretty soon all this
range so these are all pretty fresh or
new their new yeah okay you get fruit in
the first year typically a passion fruit
you can
[Music]
for a few years now we've been raising
our worms in these bins here which were
just old fruit packing bins we have a
bedding mixture of different things
that's cardboard we use some mulch and
some animal manures that are compost
organic manures grass fed animals and we
will have top feed we'll mix it up and
then we will tumble once we feel like
the compost is and the castings are at a
point where we can harvest and use them
so worms love cardboard
sometimes you'll even want to be wary of
how much cardboard you're using in which
parts of your worm bin you're using
cardboard in because they'll go right
for the cardboard before anything and so
if you're feeding them fruit and you
want them to be near the fruit then you
kind of want to use less cardboard but
they love cardboard it's a great form of
bedding for them and it's usually you
can get it almost anywhere for for
pretty cheap a lot of recycling places
where you can find cardboard and we will
be shredding the cardboard also and
using it for the bedding too and see
some some shredded cardboard in here as
well
cardboard on the on the edges cardboard
on the bottom and then our mixture of
bedding and here with the worms so this
is kind of like one of your main sources
of nutrition for the farm then huh yes
worm castings as we produce more in
multiply our worm population we'll have
more and more castings to be able to
work with and experiment with different
areas around the farm we also brew worm
tea compost tea so it's just simple
aeration worm castings some a little bit
of the native soil mixed in there
usually some type of sugar like a
molasses to kind of get the whole
process going of the fermentation and
have the microbes be able to feed on
something there and we will use the warm
tea as a foliar spray usually mixed with
some type of oil like a neem oil or
something to help it attach to the trees
and our crops pom mostly our warm tea is
more effective on those smaller crops
like sorrel like peppers jalapenos
in a home garden system so it can tend
to be lost in a fruit orchard sometimes
but every little bit helps and it's at
least it's something you know what
you're applying to the trees and the
best way to really find out if it's
doing anything is to kind of have a
control tree where you're not spraying
any warm tea and a tree where you are
and you can kind of see the effects
there if you're keeping up with it this
is our compost or worm tumbler we'll
feed a bin that we think has finished
kind of the worms of exhausted their
bedding they've the bin has broken down
to the point where you can kind of move
sift sift through it and see that it's
ready to be used as worm castings so
we'll start at the end there and kind of
feed it in here and as this system
tumbles where it's separating pretty
much just separating the worms from the
bedding and the worms from the castings
so all the finer particles that are
going to go through this particular
grate here will fall into our collecting
pots there and then the worms that are
being separated from their castings will
be collected here into other bins and
then we will rebadow's worms into new
fresh bedding new cardboard new fruit
and get those going again so they're not
just living in their own waste and we'll
use the castings around the organic farm
and also for the compost teas so after
as we're tumbling we're catching the
worm castings into these bins here and
you can see this is a really beautiful
finished product of our castings and
there's a little bit of sand in here
just from the manure that we're feeding
them a little bit a few little bit of
rocks in there but for the most part we
have this beautiful material that you
can either make the compost tea with or
you can use this to amend your soils
around your farms you don't want to
plant only in castings because of the
the tendency for this to hold water a
little bit too much it's not as aerated
as you wanted
you want for like a potted plant but as
a soil amendment as a as a topsoil use
it works great and yeah just manually
top dress with that shoveling it out or
using it's better we use a spreader spur
that further fruit trees and then we
will do it by hand on the small garden
systems and the raised beds will have
wheeled wheelbarrows and shovels nice
but yeah it's pretty nice material all
right Levi so thank you for the awesome
tour if you want to check you out people
who want to come try some of this
awesome fruit you guys are growing look
at this time where can we find you if
you're in the South Florida area we are
at Pine Crest Gardens farmers market
every Sunday all year round from 9
o'clock until 2 p.m. there will have
whatever fresh produce is in season
we'll have a table set up for that we're
slicing up fruit we're letting you try
samples of jackfruit mangos lychees
bananas everything that we grow here on
the organic farm whatever's in season
we'll bring it to the market even if
it's just a little bit of one crop and
we'll have fresh smoothies made from our
fruits my sister as a chef she does
great recipes with everything that we
grow but her smoothies and her her
mixtures of fruit are exceptional and
then we also will have our tumeric tonic
and our tumeric concentrate which is a
mixture of tumeric ginger honey and
black pepper all from the organic farm
and it is a superfood as many of you may
know tumeric has become wildly popular
in the in the health food world and we
are just love sharing with people and we
got you know we love bringing it to the
market and letting people try their
drinks and our smoothies and Pine Crest
Gardens every Sunday
we're on instagram at Ellen B groves
letters Ln B groves and Ln B Grove Stan
calm very cool man
awesome work Levi pounder keep up the
good work thank you
[Music]
you